This is Linux Unplugged, Episode 19 for December 17, 2013.
Hi everyone and welcome to Linux Unplugged, your weekly Linux talk show that's wiped nearly
every hard drive in the house trying out SteamOS.
My name is Chris.
My name is Matt.
Hey there Matt, Episode 18 buddy and are you feeling holly?
Are you feeling jolly?
Are you checking your list?
I'm checking my list.
Feeling unplugged.
Feeling verbal.
You know?
Yeah this would be a good one for folks to join us live because we're recording two episodes
this week to make up for the holiday week because we want you to have some new shows.
We know that just because it's the holidays doesn't mean you don't need your update on
the weekly Linux issues of our day and on the pre-show it got a little lively.
You know we were getting into it Matt but that's good.
It opens us up a little bit.
It kind of gives us some breathing room and I got a sandwich waiting for me in the other
room too so that adds a little bit of edge to this whole thing because I know at any
moment I could just be ripping into that sandwich but no I'm doing a Linux show right now.
Nice.
It's a sacrifice I make for the people.
Well Matt this week we kicked off our SteamOS coverage.
It's official.
It's here in the Linux Action Show Season 30 Episode 1.
Then in Coder Radio the topic came up again and we talked about the potential slight against
canonical in the choice to go with Debian.
So if you missed that discussion go listen to this week's Coder Radio.
We have a pretty good robust chat in there about that whole aspect of it and some of
the challenges that Valve face so that the conversation continues there and then today
we're going to chat with our local internet lug.
Is that even a thing?
Can you have a local internet thing?
Yeah I think so.
Okay.
We're going to.
We just did.
We're going to chat with them about their experiences experimenting with SteamOS and
their thoughts on it too and the reason is I don't know actually on reflection for some
days now I'm not sure SteamOS is going to be the biggest deal that we're all making
it out to be.
It's super important.
But I don't know if it's like really baby Jesus coming down on like a unicorn from the
clouds to save all of Linux.
I think it's probably somewhere in between.
We'll find out.
But I want to start with our follow-up.
Last week we had a great chat about the usefulness of Linux user groups you could say and the
whole lug concept in general and that fired off some good feedback.
The first one comes in from anonymous he says hey Chris and Matt and then he has engaged
rant mode.
When I go to a local hackerspace I meet the people who I know from local lugs which I
think have stopped meeting altogether.
When I first went to the lug and asked a question about Ubuntu the guy literally stopped me
mid first sentence and pointed me to someone else from the Ubuntu loco who was there and
told me never to ask him for help.
I had to learn who would answer my questions and who wouldn't and to be fair there were
those who were very helpful and explaining general concepts or solving specific problems.
And you know you see this too right online like there's different personality types and
some people are like oh Ubuntu?
Yeah you need to go talk to the Ubuntu guys right and there's some people who are willing
to help you regardless and there's just personality that I could imagine was even more exasperated
when you meet somebody in person.
Oh I imagine so and I never really understood that because I've seen I've seen people react
to that and actually I've been the one that like swoops and this is wow that guy was a
douchebag and comes in and actually tries to answer their question even though I may
or may not be into whatever they're talking about yeah I try and at least not be a jerk
about it.
Right exactly like so you know you and I might go like every now and then we're testing
a rig out and we're not doing the show be like oh geez Ubuntu like when you get all
those app port air reports that just pop up constantly you know you go oh geez Ubuntu
really you guys still do this but it doesn't mean you you refuse somebody help.
He goes on to say however while the participants would humor me by having a basic noob conversation
they tended to move on to exchanging information or having debates about advanced topics which
was the reason they were there.
Overall there seemed to be attitude of RTFM.
Interesting right because you could see how you have a conflict there where there's people
there that want to talk about system D they want to talk about C groups and they want
to talk about the direction of the gnome project they don't really want to talk about how to
get office running under wine so much and but there are people there that do and RTFM
is a hard thing to just tell somebody but at the same time I often find myself saying
well here's what you need to know go read this you know wiki entry.
Exactly but there's two interesting challenges to the RTFM is one if you're having network
issues and that's your only computer good luck with that and and two they don't really
unless you know what to look for a lot of times finding the correct answer that isn't
flooded with half answers is discouraging.
Right right or out of date because things change really fast he says ironically the
same guys who shut me down while at open source conferences extoled how employees at his company
were being taught to use open source tools to answer questions as I listened to his answer
I thought how more effectively he could address the person's questions if they learned how
to teach i.e. how to impart information this is when I came to understand why my lug was
bad at teaching all the gray beards were self-taught and expected everybody else to do the same
his example was getting people to break their stuff but this is how I did it and this is
the MS Word mindset he goes on to say my lug is YouTube now where the people who want to
teach Linux topics in a nice clear way are at which is great for me because I learn way
better being told something than reading it which is why I first started listening or
going to the lug sorry lastly my local hackerspace has a weekly class on various topics where
someone will say to me come join class X teaching is part of their DNA lugs can die as far as
I care anonymous disengage rant mode so I I could be a bastard when I say this I get
the sense that anonymous might be younger yeah I would say so that that's when the local
lug here released back when I was still you know popping in and out occasionally your
average age was at least in mid 40s if not maybe even a touch older but do you see like
okay so I think for a younger person coming into it you you're dealing with people that
are amazingly set in their ways but also there is value in being told to RTFM because if
you learn how to research your own problem and solve them that helps you down the road
and if I just tell you okay to update your DNS go edit your Etsy resolve dot comp file
then that that gets you that immediate problem fixed but that doesn't teach you anything
about how networking actually works on Linux true true but I also think it depends on what
level of learning they're looking to do if they're actually looking to perhaps pursue
this as a career or even a serious hobby absolutely yes if they're looking to just make their
computer work you got to be kidding me you know I so I think that there's got to be there's
got to be a balanced I think there should be a qualifying checkbox it says what's your
what's your what's your long term goal so that we can help address this in a way or
even find out if this is a place you should be lugs are really good for people that maybe
are interested in pursuing something in a career fashion or serious hobby because that's
what they are they're serious hobbyist they're not there to screw around right so and I think
YouTube is a much like the stuff I used to do is definitely for people are there to screw
around and that's okay right and there's such a wider variety like you have people they're
teaching the super basic stuff you then you have people like us who are kind of doing
more of the current events how news and digging into stuff right so there's a there's a wider
range of availability but I also kind of felt like our anonymous writer here wasn't fully
appreciating perhaps some of the lessons their gray beards were trying to pass on to him
and it's not so much they're trying to blow him off and get rid of them is that they're
trying to give him you know you filled saying you can lead a horse to water right that saying
right they're trying to they're trying to or you can you know you can teach a man to
fish they're trying to teach him how to fish basically is what I yeah I think and I totally
get that but I think that goes back to why star public school systems as a joke in my
opinion is because it's it's this one way fits all crap and it doesn't work that way
you know and so I think I think that we need to really establish right there at the door
right there when I first come in have a sheet that says let's make sure we're not wasting
everyone's time and that's very gray beard and approach because it's very much you know
it's me me me all about me and you know that's fine and to defend our writer he said you
know he's better at visual and audio learning than he is at reading learning so when you
tell him to go read something he just doesn't retain it as well and there's completely on
the writer's side I think that I think the person who wrote the letter is spot-on correct
I think that the entire experience sucked for him I totally do yeah all right well Miles
writes in on the same topic this is a bring one of those gray beards you speak of and
a lug member for 20 years and I could bean he says I think you meant to write I can say
that lugs have lost some appeal but also many of us still enjoy the direct people contact
they can offer our lug is full of former punch card cowboys but we also have many younger
and father child members who bond over the talks and that that last cool that struck
a chord me I could see that right because sure you know you're teaching a bit of the
culture and in your like so I was thinking about my son Dylan if I was teaching him about
Linux there's only so much realism there is when you're just showing him stuff on the
internet and you're talking to him about it but when you actually go to other people and
you see what they're doing and listening to their experiences what they've tried what hasn't
worked it's much more tangible and I think for perhaps getting somebody into it that
could be beneficial he says our topics are not just straight Linux but other technologies
as well it also provides a great opportunity as a technical forum of toast masters for
many who to develop public speaking and presentation skills interesting good point yeah that is
you know because right because you got to go there maybe you're gonna do a talk on on
on Docker and you know you have to learn how to present and you can then take that skill
and apply it to your job or whatever you a podcast or whatever it is lugs are still valid
and relevant resources but like anything worth it you get out of them what you put in I drive
two hours each way to mine every month and I still get something from every meeting that's
cool but it sounds like that this is not only a person that's well matched to to a log but
they're well matched to their look that's fantastic right yep I agree and it's cool
that was good perspective from miles so I appreciate him writing that in definitely
all right Matt well uh we'll get a little loop in our our mumble room on their thoughts
on the topic but before we get to that I want to thank our sponsor this week and that is
ting.com now ting is mobile that makes sense my mobile service provider and Matt's mobile
service provider oh yeah Matt we are liking ourselves the ting why I'll tell you why no
contracts no early termination fees and you only pay for what you use picture it now people
you go over to Linux dot ting.com which will save you twenty five dollars off your first
device or twenty five dollars off your first month if you have a sprint compatible device
and look through their devices they have some great ones and what's awesome is not only
do you get a discount applied to them but they also have additional discounts on some
of them and you will own this device outright this is yours now just like when you buy a
laptop or you buy a desktop or a tablet you own that it's not subsidized and by the way
there was a great piece I don't remember by which publication but you can look it up I'll
try to link to it in the show notes about the massive marketing and surveillance program
that some of the telcos have this is one of these things that gets really creepy and really
shady and you never know what is being installed on your device and Verizon is the worst they
they have a system that is optimized at for example if you like to go to a local sports
game they will determine if you're somebody who drives home immediately afterwards or
if you stop by the bar first and then they'll try to tailor the marketing they'll sell that
information and try to tailor that marketing to you which is pretty creepy and these kinds
of things are are possible because they own the software stack on that phone they own
the device they're lending it to you and they are they are getting money out of you every
single month for that and they also own the software stack on that now I don't know about
you but I would never buy a computer that I did not have administrative root access
over and that's what happens when you buy one of these phones directly from these carriers
well ting is enabling you to buy a nexus directly from Google Play and bring it over to the
ting network and then you only pay for what you use you have no contract and no early
termination fees that's a huge deal because that's exactly how it should be as we become
more dependent on these devices this is going to become more and more critical but not only
that ting is only six dollars flat rate per month and then it's just they take your minutes
your messages and your megabytes they add them up at the end of the month whatever bucket
you fall into that's what you pay hotspot tethering caller ID voicemail all included
with the plan if you turn on hotspot and tethering you just pay for the data usage you don't
have to be in some sort of special family shared tier or something like that it just
works so go over to linux.ting.com to get started and by the way if you're in a contract
right now hit that how much would you save button find out how much you would say by
switching to ting and then they're going to help you out with your early termination fee
they will pay up to seventy five dollars per line that you need to cancel I love the Nexus
five I've also got the HTC one Matt has the note two and Matt how much do you love that
big screen I love the big screen as a matter of fact it's my go-to phone at this point
because everything's so big and bright and crisp and clear it's great and they're taking
they're there so if you combine the thirty one dollar discount that they have on the
note two right now plus our twenty five dollar discount you can buy the note outright you
completely own it for six hundred dollars now think about this because this is something
that all of the cell phone companies I bet if I could make a little 2014 prediction I
would bet you that the higher end phones on the cellular networks will lose their subsidized
status in 2014 both the two biggest wireless carriers in the United States have stated
they want to discontinue subsidized plans now our friends across the pond are rolling
their eyes like yeah you guys are just now catching on to this here in the States the
subsidized things has been going on for a while right but it sounds like it's coming
to an end so get ahead of the curve start saving money now switch to Ting and you'll
thank me later go over to linux.ting.com and a huge thanks to Ting for sponsoring Linux
Unplugged. Love those guys. Love it Matt. You know what let's give that a ding. Ding.
A ding for Ting. Fox News alert. We're bringing in the the mumble room right now and I just
wanted to kind of let's start with this topic mumble room. Popey you brought up the whole
topic of lugs last week and I don't know what your thoughts are on it from now but here
we've heard two different perspectives. We've heard from possibly a younger guy who says
I was I got basically told RTFM and we've heard from an older guy who says he gets a
lot out of it. Are lugs maybe just not the appropriate place anymore for basic user support?
It's funny you should you should mention the RTFM thing. We see a bit of that on my on
my lug and you know grumpy old people or the gray beards or whatever you want to call them
and one of the things when the and you also mentioned locos when the Ubuntu loco teams
was set up one of the kind of not a rule but a recommendation was that you don't throw
an RTFM at people and you don't throw a let me google that for you link at people because
it's just rude. It's okay you could argue it's teaching someone to fish but actually
you could say here's the answer to your actual question and by the way you'll find that in
the map. I agree but is that because and this is a question for Alan is that because the
Linux documentation and whole is kind of asked compared to something like the FreeBSD handbook
so example if I ask Alan how do I do X in FreeBSD if he tells me go read it on the FreeBSD
handbook I don't really consider that a disservice because the FreeBSD handbook is easily available
it's well documented it's well laid out it's an official source so Alan when you sit there
as a FreeBSD user watching us Linux users try to help each other's problems do you see
this as a major hole in the Linux ecosystem partly but one of the biggest difference I
would say is I would take the time to point you to the section of the handbook right thank
you because it has the we do the anchor tags I can point you to like the chapter 24.7.3
that explains exactly the answer to your question rather than just telling you go to FreeBSD.org
slash handbook right and find which is what I'm saying that's exactly the same as what
I'm saying point someone to exactly the piece of documentation okay but here's the problem
though it's like they could have googled it as quickly as I did but or maybe not as quickly
I know all the chapters of the handbook and where to look yeah but like what is it though
so let's let's you could probably pick on the arch wiki but let's pick on the Ubuntu
wiki because I've noticed it this week as I was running this leopard extreme is sometimes
I go to the Ubuntu wiki and stuff is literally written for Ubuntu 9 something and it quickly
falls out of date and I feel like this is this this wiki creep is a common problem for
Linux and I think it aggravates the problem of not being able to tell people to RTFM because
the truth is RTFM might not give them the right information and that's why one a little
while ago one of the UDS is George Castro who works for canonical gave a talk a lightning
talk that we're doing a disservice to our customers and our users by having old out
of date information on the wiki and on forums and you know various web pages on blogs as
well you might think you're you're doing a great service to write a blog post but when
you don't update that in three years time that's bad because people still go back to
it because it's got certain keywords that they're looking for and it might it might
not be up to date so his his recommendation was to go through the wiki and delete pages
that just are wrong just delete them get rid of them just expire them essentially completely
delete them because when they show up in Google search results that's worse than no answer
showing up because you're leaving you know you're telling someone to use it in this wrapper
with the broadcom whatever that actually could make their experience worse than it not working
you know what you could do their machine up other wikis have it where if it's an old
an old note that it will an old old post that gives you a big a bad tutorial from like three
years ago it was good then but now it's awful they'll have a note that says this is just
how many years old or whatever here's the newer version this is targeted for you know
x release and you know click here for maybe the updated releases the current stuff gets
buried under all of the old information it's really difficult sometimes to find up-to-date
information for the current release well you just that's just seo you do canonical that's
a Google problem that's Google's not the company right but older pages that have gotten more
clicks always have you can't always control how Google ranks this stuff right you can't
you control like based on somebody searches for something if they click a link and then
don't come back and keep searching Google assumes they found what they're looking for
and now increases the rank of that page like that interesting yeah one of the ways we fixed
it or we think we've fixed it partially is to switch to using askabuntu stack exchange
outside is better because there's a few ways that fix it one way is it's not a wiki that's
got some onerous barrier to edit pages you can easily tag things and say well this works
on 904 and 910 and oh hey it works on 1204 and you know whatever release as well and
rubbish gets buried and good answers get voted up just like reddit you know the good stuff
bubbles to the top there is a negative to it though what's that like for example just
I run a work on a project for a download manager and if you go to askabuntu and you search
for you say you ask any question about a download manager they will say that this question is
a duplicate and send you to another question that has about 30 answers and 10 of those
are valid but not specific to what they want duplicate duplicate duplicate duplicate expand
on that too I found that I would agree that it is vastly better than the wiki system no
question about it it's like reddit I love that part of it my only gripe is that a lot
of the stuff that gets voted up is crap because a lot of times it's like it's technically
the correct answer but honestly sometimes so the answers are so overkill that they turn
you new users off and I have an inbox full of people screaming for help daily from a
boon to user so that to kind of testify to that so I think it's the right approach I
just want to see more vetting setups though because like the question and answer format
works great especially when somebody has a question and so it it works better than regular
documentation for answering that question right but if you just want to learn more of
a tutorial style or yeah like a corporate style you're gonna have the entirety of how
to do something the question and answer style doesn't work as well so that's what you kind
of need both right something like the handbook which is very like old-fashioned manual these
are the steps you go through to do these type of things and as well the question answered
because people want you know when you have a simple question you don't want to know all
the steps to do X you want to know what's the answer to Y right and you want and that
would that was popular on forums you know people would write a tutorial for you know
how to get your Broadcom wireless working on like 1104 and that would get loads of thanks
or whatever hearts or diamonds or whatever people give to people on forums and then you'd
find there would be a flurry of activity lots of replies and oh you might want to tweak
it for this in this use case and so the original poster would update their their post and it
would it would be golden for a few months and then you find loads of replies and there
be pages and pages and pages of replies and it would then be orphaned and nobody can edit
it to fix it and anyone anyone who comes to that tutorial will find pages and pages and
pages of you know people arguing whether it works or not and then on the very last last
but one page is the final nugget of information that actually tells you how to make it working
on your release and that's just terrible as well I mean they've all got their own you
know disadvantages and I don't think every one of them is a is a magic bullet and exasperating
need all of them exasperating the problem is a lot of these and this can be sometimes
a problem on askabuntu because it's more user generated is a lot of times there's a the
answer is a copypasta where you know add this to your sources list and then do an app get
and import this GPG key which by the way by the time you're reading that that app repo
is completely dead right like and this bit me with handbrake I wanted to get the absolute
latest build of handbrake I eventually just downloaded the debt but I wanted a PPA so
that way I could have a nice currently updated handbrake but of course I ended up getting
the repo that was totally dead and so now and it's not a big deal I can go you know
pull it out of my sources list but I get errors every time I get update now for a casual user
who's just doing a little copypasta and and you know and adds that repo that PPA and applies
that update all of a sudden they're getting errors and they don't really know what the
hell is going on and it's I don't know how to solve it completely other than you know
that we're at least seems like we're on the right track and then also it's maybe if we
could have if we could have do a better job at informing people at the beginning of the
gate like cuz perhaps really we solve this problem years ago with IRC like the maybe
the you know they ask the the the Ubuntu support chat room is a better place to ask ask these
kind of things but users just don't even know those things exist I think I think the Linux
community actually is really to blame here I mean a user joined the IRC and was asking
about their bootloader and they kind of got some help but the IRC community had a massive
tangent about where to use syslinux or grub and then you just left the channel with no
help whatsoever right yeah no erupts in some sort of religious war over grub vs. lilo history
no one cares about I mean it's like yeah yeah or you end up at the same problem you have
with a lug right lugs trying to build membership and get people to come every week but or every
month or whenever the meeting is but if people if there's new people asking the same question
every single week are you gonna spend you know a half of your meeting every week covering
the same let's this is how you install Ubuntu it's it's hard on to keep people coming back
it burns them out that just gets boring the whole IRC thing though is people just need
to get better mods in the irc's that's it's that simple because like I mean there's people
are donating their time to try to help you know you can only expect so much from them
well I mean when there's thousands of people like in the Ubuntu IRC and they're just having
an endless conversation about grub vs. lilo and somebody's needing help a mod chances
are a mod sees that and just doesn't do anything no I mean technically most of the time in
Ubuntu when they'll tell them to go into off topic channel and like there's because like
the help channel for Ubuntu is just for help and when they start talking about which is
better blah blah they say go to the off the off topic maybe maybe Google help out solves
this problem sorry go ahead we've had a couple of community guys in the UK who've tried doing
help outs and I know there's more people who want to do help outs but because they're rate
limiting you know the invites to do help outs that makes it very hard for us to evaluate
whether it's a good tool or a bad tool but the guy who's been doing it mostly in the
UK guy called Matt has has has found it quite successful and had great conversations and
he does it all for free oh really I was gonna say is he making money yeah his his his philosophy
is I learned all this from other people who gave me the information for free so I'm just
passing it on for free all right all right yeah I feel like a jerk wouldn't it be kind
of good I feel great because I'm getting a wiki system where you could vote like on ask
Ubuntu and newer votes well you can actually on ask Ubuntu you can convert a page from
a question into a wiki page so if it does if it is a like a discussion like should I
get an NVIDIA or an AMD card that's not a technical you know how does how do I get the
latest driver that's a you know opinionated question so you can convert pages from questions
into wiki pages which multiple people can edit I feel like I think that one of the problems
with newbies is that for me that I'm not from an English-speaking country I often don't
even know how something is called and I prefer RC and just say you know that stuff when system
starts up not boots up because I don't know that it's easier in the RC and I think that's
so basic that someone can can help me with that from the top of his head yeah yeah that's
a good point good point good that's good perspective too because I didn't even think about the
challenges when you don't quite know what it's called or how to say it that just it's
a whole layer of complexity on top of that what about okay what about something like
a community that was really focused and a large community of you know maybe several
thousand Linux users who was really focused on being that front line of support that people
could come to and it'd be great if there was a way to monetize it for some folks too so
maybe they could make a little money on it money talks yeah maybe it's a Bitcoin tip
system maybe it's a maybe it's like a flatter type system but it'd be you know remember
like Linux questions org and a lot of those kinds of sites wouldn't it be awesome if like
if there was a full-fledged like there was video and audio and forums and and and by
forms I mean something like the ask a bunch to type stack exchange type system I think
that would really if like if that became known almost as like a brand this is this is the
brand of an organization of people who help Linux users and then if somehow that became
popular enough people knew where to go or people had heard about it or at least enough
word-of-mouth spread happened that oh you switch to Linux oh you should go try out XYZ
go look at their site because they got a ton of great info and I feel like that would do
it like almost like how the Linux foundation is focused on the core agendas of Linux and
financing the core development of Linux and and representing Linux it'd be amazing if
there was another foundation that was focused on maybe new user switchers because I feel
like we're entering 2014 with with Steam OS which is our which is our next topic and I
don't know about you guys but there are there are a surprising I don't know if you've seen
the post there's a surprising amount of Windows users who are switching but they're like hey
I'm gonna try out switching to Steam OS today like they say they're gonna switch to Steam
OS it's crazy but we're gonna have more people coming to Linux than ever before because Windows
is continually being cocked up with X next version now they're gonna supposedly with
threshold they're gonna add the start menu back which is gonna be a total cluster because
they're still gonna have these weird mixed desktop metaphors going on it's totally gonna
flop in the enterprise the enterprise is gonna be looking for something to move over to gamers
are looking for something to move over to the economy sucking super bad nobody has money
they're trying to get more investments out of the existing machines they already have
so they're switching over to Linux the amount of people moving into Linux it's like there's
just not the support infrastructure required to make it all work smoothly for these people
I'd love to see something like that set up I think it would be great if all the distros
put when you download the installer that you have if you need help click here and then
it's we go to the side with Linux help there there are started that like the mint has done
it for a while like on when Jaro does that I think it taggers does it too now you need
help go here if you need I mean there's there's there's help islands right there's askabuntu
there's the arch wiki there's the Gentoo wiki there's the fedora forms there's the open
susa community all meant everybody every distro really has their own islands but I feel like
that's first of all like a Linux questions org 2.0 right let's consolidate the effort
right let's consolidate the effort one spot one and the reason I use the word brand is
because I don't like it but that's what resonates with just average users oh this is this is
something I know I can trust it's it's a it's a helpful thing and and we can all go there
because I honestly think it's like if somebody downloads integros or kudora right do you
really expect them to figure out like that they should be going back to this other distros
forums which are gonna be more active than the sub distros forms because they're just
a spin of the other distro that's ridiculous it's not gonna happen but if I were never
told the original distro you're on a spin of that distro on them on help outs there's
if you just search for the word Linux there's eight pages or so oh really people offering
help yeah there's this quite a given that it's like limited rollout and that's exactly
the kind of thing you know you can monetize it at a per hour or per minute basis or you
can make it free or you can do a mix of the both and you know you you can basically achieve
what what you're hoping for but as an individual I just wish I wish Google was as owning this
you know I wish I wish this was something that was more from the open source community
itself because you know you need a web RTC based right exactly exactly you need a web
RTC based system with Bitcoin paid in or litecoin or whatever you want as the payment system
so that way it's directly from the from the user directly to the producer and it's not
going through Google they're not taking their cut you don't have to have a wallet account
you don't have to have a tied to your bank account and Google can't just arbitrarily
shut you down I have spent I have submitted just this morning just just before 930 today
I submitted 30 disputes to YouTube takedowns of Jupiter broadcasting videos and that's
not all of them I cut it off because I had a conference call I had to jump on and that
was at 30 before 930 today I don't want to give Google any of this stuff because they're
just gonna cock it up they're just screwing it all up and so I would love to see something
that's community focused this might be a this might be a good way to like test the theory
is there a demand for this type of service what do you think I don't know wasn't that
the whole point yeah there is no point of a red hat though was it bright enterprise
level for business yeah for businesses Matt what do you Matt what do you think about the
concept of is could help outs like prove the concept and then the community take it from
there well so here's the problem I actually have a help out set up it's awesome one little
tidbit though because I was stupid enough to use Google for my merchant account at one
time years ago I can't use Google wallets with that particular invited address so I'm
still in I'm still in purgatory trying to get that set up and here I am trying to offer
that and I think it testifies to what you're saying as far as using Google for the service
don't run away run far away don't use good I've between you know their random SEO nuclear
bomb set offs and all this other stuff I think there's just too much power play there there's
way too much power I'm watching you know a lot of things they're doing scare me I think
there's very much so yeah I don't think so I was I was boiling over with anger because
what's happening is is and let you know what I got an idea let's just let's get ourselves
in trouble I'm just gonna play a little music right now because what happens every time
I play a Ronald Jenke song who not only have I gotten a license from for all of his music
he's also somebody I consider a friend I have emails from him right now saying hey I'm really
sorry about this I want you to use my music you've sold a ton of CDs for me it's been
an amazing relationship like you are you are helping me and I want you to use my music
and now YouTube is tagging every single Jupiter broadcasting video that has Ronald Jenke's
music and well guess what that's just about every damn show on the network yep so it's
it whenever you hand it over to them if they have the payment aspect if they have the content
distribution aspect whatever if they have and also by the way that relationship is being
established that account is being created and established with Google not with you directly
so if they shut down your account that person would have to go find you on your own website
created a new account set up a new payment system and all of that and you know what they're
not gonna do it there's gonna find the next guy doing the help outs on Google yep exactly
so anyways that's my rant Chris if I can just jump back to your one brand idea I don't think
that works because what works on Ubuntu doesn't work on Arch well no you'd have to have different
you yeah you'd have to accommodate for that for sure you'd have to have people that could
totally different audiences too you have to be like you'd have to have channels to send
people down the right channel and then you'd have people that you know you have representatives
from the Arch community representatives from the Ubuntu community and maybe even eventually
like that person would push that person onto a thread on ask Ubuntu like it doesn't necessarily
negate the need for distro specific help resources but it might help people get people in the
right direction right but it sounds like you're just advocating also stronger bit branding
for the distro in question so you might instead of saying you're using Linux say you're using
Ubuntu that'll make it so much easier for your average user to find help instead of
putting you know how do I set this up and adding Linux so they can get rid of all the
windows you know what great point you bun too and exactly distro specific help yeah
you know because when I had my wife try out mint she she was searching for Linux application
thing she wasn't searching for how do I install X on mint Linux or how do I install X on Ubuntu
Linux how do I install it on Linux and and she didn't know that she's going to get a
dramatically different answer by searching for how do I install shot well on Ubuntu then
how do I install shot well on Linux that concept never she never even realizes she needed to
make that that that clarification but then you get but with that you fragment the Linux
help if you put to one page the the page can read which additional you can use or you can
just choose it you just get help for that additional specific yeah and you could when
you're searching for like when you're searching for software or whatever then you have to
teach them to say well when you're looking for software then you search for Linux and
when you need help you search for Linux mint or whatever because now now picture this in
a commercial you too can try this great Linux distro just learn to use Google learn to use
this other tool then stand on one foot twirl around in a circle stand on your head too
much I mean it's no one no one care I mean it's like that's that's why we fall off that's
totally why we fall off yeah so and I remember this old article I think was ZDNet had it
and it was this guy complaining about Linux I remember he tried to install the RPM like
he tried to install on Debian you're gonna have a bad time yeah it's not gonna work and
he was like trying to mix like all three package managers at once and wondering why because
he searched for how to do this on Linux and he got the answer for like CentOS and then
tried to do it on his Ubuntu machine and man yeah that happens too I mean that's the problem
I mean you could you could do the way that if you wanted to do something cross cross
distro you could do it in the way that help us do it and just tag people you know people
say you know my expert area is servers and you know I deal with hard disk related problems
and like a reputation system like you know user Matt is good at Ubuntu support and he
has 25 upvotes in the Ubuntu support category that kind of thing yeah that'll work yeah
software has a bunch of things like that right yeah most most people if their Linux computer
is broken they're switching from a second computer yeah and also if they whether they
do know it or not for example Linux Mint it still shows up as a bunch of questions like
questions about unity itself or XFCE or KDE because they're like I mean KDE is gonna be
completely different on how to do something in XFCE would yeah very true right yeah and
you can just tag yourself with whatever desktops you're familiar with and when someone searches
you know what do you want help with filter it with this then yeah I think this is this
is also why I like the idea of like a video type based hangout because the user might
not know what quite the right things are but if they can generally get into the direction
of talking to another human being that person would go oh oh you're on KDE oh okay I thought
you were on gnome no what you need to do is go to system settings and then you need to
go to appearance right so I think that's why that that interactive aspect of it is is almost
worth that money because they can they can kind of fill that gap where the user doesn't
quite even know what to ask for totally yeah the more the more I hear like what we're talking
about here the more I kind of see it has to be a company that's doing this because it's
almost sounds like you have to have like I got almost like a conveyor belt system where
you have someone that just diagnoses the problem like oh you're using KDE we're sending you
to our KDE guy you know it's got to be an incentive otherwise no one cares my here's
the simplest fix I can think of for just like even existing systems is first of all for
the love of Pete incentivize incentivize this somehow right swag right hats t-shirts a handshake
meet meet someone famous what I don't care you know whatever it is incentivize it somewhere
more importantly every time an update for that particular just rolls out there should
be a list of people that are alerted via email saying hey this has been updated you have
an opportunity to earn more swag would you like to update this wiki or what about many
probably tie that in the help out system like yeah so maybe when when you know Ubuntu 1404
ships wouldn't it be interesting if by the way Ubuntu 1404 is shipped go to this URL
to find out all the people on Google help outs that are helping people transition from
1310 to 1404 or whatever right like when some big announce you could tie it to anything
when some big release of something comes out here's the people on Google help outs that
are already totally up to date on this topic and ready to help you make the switch and
I think that you could that could be a really big opportunity too I mean I'm now I'm coming
back on the side of Google help outs again just because I don't feel like there's a better
option yet but I'd love to see some more good the stack exchange system has a lot of this
already kind of built in and the like they incentivize it with just badges but you could
yeah yeah that by you know if canonical donates a thousand t-shirts then the first thousand
people to get a thousand rep points can get a free t-shirt yeah and titles titles meaningless
titles people love titles I guess the achievement teacher because when I answer a question I
don't just answer the question I also explain why it is that way right yeah that would be
awesome I like the badge right or you get like you know analytical because of the way
that would work that would work that would totally work yeah kind of a gamification of
support a little bit and all of that yeah yeah market just throw a few space bucks into
that right I hear that's how that works well you know you become like the super grant granular
spaceman wizard guy or whatever like the best of the best the ninja whatever then you get
to meet mark in person or something you know whatever it may be you know something cool
you know what I have most of my points are in answering nginx questions on server fall
when I met mark in person it was at an Ubuntu conference and he was working with he was
talking to a guy from Intel and they had this tiny micro PC this was this is before the
iPad this was this is a long time ago and mark was playing with this little this little
Intel based PC running Ubuntu that was I've never seen a computer this small it was a
full-fledged like microcomputer with a with a with a bigger QWERTY keyboard I think if
I recall poppy you know what I'm talking about was an Intel classmate maybe I maybe was when
the classmate was born right that might have been when it was that it was it was really
cool round around mouse touchpad yeah I can't remember if I had a touchpad or not but I
mean it's funny now looking at the whole the whole Ubuntu touch effort and now how captivated
mark was by this device back then and you can kind of it's you see the history connect
um all right well so I do want to actually touch on the topic of steam OS a little bit
because we've got a great resource in the mumble room today and he's the creator of
simple screen recorder and he's been working on how he's actually the guy I found out that
that the gnome desktop session is running in a separate X session than the actual steam
big picture interfaces by his commentary in our Linux action show subreddit so I want
to talk to him a little bit about his efforts on setting up and configuring and building
simple screen recorder to record a steam OS but before we get to that I want to think
digital ocean simple cloud hosting digital ocean is dedicated offering the most intuitive
way to spin up a cloud server it I gotta tell you I set up a I set up a clouds a droplet
as they call it called Europa because Europa is a moon of Jupiter yeah I know I'm funny
like that and you know what they say users can create a cloud server in 55 seconds I
don't want to brag I created mine in 45 seconds pricing plans start only five dollars per
month for 512 megabytes of RAM a 20 gigabyte SSD yes an SSD and yes it makes a difference
one CPU and a terabyte of transfer right there for five dollars a terabyte of transfer right
there in the plan digital ocean has data center locations in New York San Francisco
and Amsterdam actually they got two in New York Sun I got my droplet in New York number
two which has been fantastic because then I get something I have I have facilities here
on the West Coast Adam on my own fiber connection and I have facilities on the East Coast which
is awesome for the kind of distribution I'm doing by the way the interface on digital
ocean is super simple intuitive the control panel is powerful and they also have a very
straightforward API if you just want to write something that talks to it digital open digital
ocean also offers a vast collection of tutorials in their community section and users can submit
an article and if digital ocean decides to publish it you'll get $50 we'll have a link
to that in our show notes right right underneath the digital ocean banner but guess what we
got a great deal for you if you want to get started at digital ocean we'll get you a ten
dollar credit by using the promo code Linux unplugged December Linux unplugged December
all one word we'll get you a ten dollar credit now if you get the five dollar a box like
I've got that'll get you two months and I guarantee you a Linux box connected to a super
fast internet connection in a data center basically on any major geographical location
you want with SSD backs and by the way runs on top of KVM you can choose Ubuntu Fedora
CentOS goes on goes on goes on and it's awesome for five dollars a month and we'll get you
a ten dollar credits you can try for two months you're gonna find something to do with that
so go over to digital ocean.com and a big thank you to digital ocean for sponsoring
Linux unplugged I love my digital ocean droplet Matt loves it good stuff love it I want to
bring in Martin here so Martin you've been working on simple screen recorder and you've
been playing around with SteamOS a little bit tell me a little bit about what you found
so far okay SteamOS is actually just a Debian distribution but Valve made some changes so
they don't use the Debian repositories Valve has their own repositories which is actually
just a really stripped down version of Debian so they don't have any packages that they
don't need I think if you look at the packages that are actually installed it's like all
of them so that's a bit of a problem if you want to yeah load other open source applications
well were you able to add just a regular Debian repost to the sources.list file yeah you can
but there are some conflicts I think I did it it just well it will pull in some applications
that no not application but things like grub that were updated okay it didn't break for
me but I'm not sure so I don't really recommend that okay okay so what kind of success did
you see with running simple screen recorder on SteamOS yeah so right now it doesn't really
work yet because the Valve has split the desktop and Steam itself so they're actually two separate
accounts and when you switch between them it's like switching to a different user account
on the normal Linux desktop so if you try to run an application on the desktop like
simple screen recorder and you try to record it and then you switch back well you won't
see anything and it also breaks things like keyboard shortcuts so yeah a lot of things
I still have to work around and you can't so you can't share the same home folder so
if you record something on one desktop now have you been able to record the SteamOS session
well I can record the desktop but I haven't really tried yet well one other problem is
I'm doing all this in a virtual machine right now okay and I didn't get hardware acceleration
to work so it's yeah really really slow yeah so it's a bit hard to test it now I guess
it kind of makes sense that they'd break that off into its own user account and and all
of that well I mean I'm sure you'll work on it over time I think it's something that people
want to do quite a bit because you know I mean that's your simple simple screen recorder
is an awesome utility so yes it is keep us posted in the Linux action show subreddit
would you okay all right very good all right guys well so we have one bit of email I want
to get to before we wrap up for the day today and it's actually on the topic of lugs as
well it wasn't exactly a explicit follow-up to our episode last week but I'll read it
Matt maybe you and I will kick some thoughts around then I'll bring in the mumble room
to get their final thoughts on it but comes in from Archie and he wants to talk about
starting the luck now I know we had somebody in the mumble room last week who was interested
in that I don't know if we still do but we'll jump in there in a second says hey Chris and
Matt but a longtime viewer of last however this is my first time submitting a question
to any of the shows during the last episode of Linux Unplugged you touched on the topic
of lugs I'm living Estonia and as far as I know there's no existing lug in our country
moreover I could not find any active lugs in either Lativa or let's do Lithuania let's
let it oh geez oh man let's do it I used to know how to pronounce it but I can't lethonia
I'm gonna go with Lithuania which is our oh my yes that's right so I was thinking about
starting one in my country however I'm struggling to find a direction in which to go I mean
I could personally give a couple of short talks but that's basically it I have some
friends who are very passionate about Linux but I really believe organizing an install
fest is kind of dull as you mentioned in the show lugs are all about meeting people in
real life but what could be the reason that would convince people to physically come to
one place and discuss stuff from what I understand there are some people in the audience who
have some experience with participating in a lug so maybe they could give some suggestions
keep up the great work Archie so he talked on it so I thought first of all Archie has
a good insight so I think one of the things he was talking about here was holding talks
to bring people to the meetup and you know I think that's a really good idea if there's
a topic on Linux or if there's several topics on Linux that Archie you're comfortable with
and you could volunteer to hold talks to bring people in people will come and if they have
you will find that the people that come to watch your talk likely have topics and subjects
they are qualified to have talks yes and you can work with them I was wondering like so
you know Matt getting things started I like the idea of I mean I can't believe I'm about
to say this but using a resource like Facebook and finding people in your local area who
share a common interest with you and maybe establishing like a group on Google Plus or
a group on Facebook or whatever it is where you guys virtually kind of collaborate initially
and then once you kind of have a core group maybe move to doing something local I would
actually do that but I will also integrate the talks ideas you pointed out also pointing
out that in Estonia and a lot of other countries there are social networks that are perhaps
more popular there than they are here and I forget I can't think of their names off
top my head but Facebook like networks for sure but I think the talks idea is good I
think that also offering for people that have never even heard of Linux if you want to get
fresh fresh blood into it actually saying hey do you have an old XP machine that you're
just discovered it's going to become a paperweight here very quickly right let's have a look
at that maybe not necessarily an install fest but let's actually look at your options look
at the look at the headlines take advantage of that hey did you hear XP a supports ending
well come to our group and we'll show you how to get more value out of that old PC and
then you winking a little glitter on the tooth all right well let's her I'll bring the bring
the mobile guys back in so anybody in the room have experience with starting the log
or have ideas for Archie on how we can get started with creating a local log maybe the
first log in his country sorry I was just going to say you were saying about incorporating
things like Facebook Google Plus etc social networks you might you might actually run
into some problems there because at least I've found that a lot of the people that are
really into Linux and would love to go to logs are the people that don't really use
them that much oh different audiences mm-hmm I'm not so sure I think there's certainly
a crossover of refuse nicks who hate social media and scoff at that kind of stuff and
the privacy issues I need the people who know better right right yeah the Venn diagram
has a massive overlap between them and people who go to Linux user groups but we my local
Linux user group on the subject of talks they do exactly that they put a mail out on the
mailing list and say because we have we have a mailing list and an IRC channel we have
a Google Plus page a Twitter account and I don't think we have a Facebook page but that's
just because I haven't been done yet but the we put a mail out and say look we're having
a meeting at this time on this day if anyone wants to give a talk let me know and then
they build up on the web page and on the day we set some times when the talks are going
to be given and the rest of the time it's just general chitchat and support and that
kind of stuff and that works out really well I've listened to some really diverse topics
like three completely different things that you you wouldn't put in a track on a conference
together right you know completely wildly different things but all interesting and all
you know or not necessarily all interesting sometimes some of them are just you know not
interesting to me but interesting to half the rest of the audience but then the rest
of the time you can sit there and you know fix someone's PC or something I think a mailing
list is a really key point because you could have people subscribe to the mailing list
you could say hey are you interested in Linux do you live in this area subscribe to our
mailing list you wait till that mailing list is built up to a substantial subscriber base
and then that's when you start to pull the gun or pull the trigger on on the local stuff
you know maybe you don't start with local maybe you start with a mailing list we have
I'm from Estonia and we have a webpage called bingveen.org and that kind of has all the
information about Estonian Linux users and those things what was it again it was in the
chat room earlier bingveen.org okay yeah I'll put a link to it in the show notes p-i-n-g-v-i-n.org
very good and we have once a year we have it in September we have free software day
that all the free software activists come together and have a meeting or two cool things
and stuff very good well thank you I'll link to that so maybe our writer will catch that
in the show notes yeah definitely good stuff thank you all right guys well so just a couple
of extra things in the show notes I want to point people over to Thermonex wrote in and
he built a steam box on arch and he has some scripts for that we have a link to that in
the show notes he says I recently set up arch linux on my home theater pc and I set it to
boot into xbox media center the standalone edition from xbmc now I have a shortcut to
launch steam of course I could easily boot directly into steam os but it's his script
so he has an entry now in his xbmc menu Matt how awesome is this right I'm gonna you know
I actually like that better than steam os just because it's less clicks less hassle
it's more functional right you can watch your videos and so then he's in xbmc and he clicks
it and then it starts steam in big picture mode and he's got I'll have a link to that
and also of course Michael Laerbeil over at Ferronix just got in some benchmarks of steam
os versus dun-dun-dun-dun-dun-dun windows 8.1 on the video chip and guess what the performance
is pretty much as long as you have everything set along along the same lines it seems like
it's pretty much neck and neck there's nothing really too outrageously different there but
we'll have a link to that if you guys want to read that in the show notes as well alright
well look we're gonna wrap up right here but we want to hear from you so you can join us
live on a Tuesday Matt and I sit down we open up the mumble room and we begin our conference
with our internet lug and we do that over at jblive.tv on a Tuesday and you can find
out when that's at by going over to jupiterbroadcasting.com slash calendar send us in your feedback on
any topic we covered or topics you'd like it to hear us cover you know I don't know
maybe you got something we haven't thought of go over to jupiterbroadcasting.com and
pop that contact link and we'd love to hear from you alright Matt well guess what we're
gonna do a review of fedora 20 on the big show on Sunday oh yeah so I'll see you then
okay cool see you then alright everyone well thank you so much for tuning this week's episode
of Linux Unplugged we'll see you right back here next week.